Hello, dear listener and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast whose body temperature precipitously drops whenever Barbara isn't on screen.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Don.
I'm James, and I'm Moonbase HR for this episode here for a very serious talk with Helena about when nepotism becomes necrophilia.
So we are watching episode 13 of series one. or SP2.
Yes.
And that is going to be a topic of conversation here. serious topic, yes.
It's called Matter of Life and Death.
It's written by Art Wallace and Johnny Byrne.
Although, yes.
And directed by Charles Crichton...
Charlie Crichton, yes.
And it is the 1st episode of Space 1999 to actually be completely completed.
It is.
It was filmed second, 14th to 30th of January, 1974. shoot ran for 13 days after the colossal 3 plus weeks of breakaways recording.
But this still ran 2 days over.
And people were very nervous on the shoot thinking this is how it's always going to be.
So this is kind of the one the critics jumped on.
And this is the one everyone remembers as, if you haven't got any holics at home, just put on an episode of Space 1999. if it's Betty by his time and you're having difficulty nodding off.
That's not completely undeserved.
However, it has some beautiful grace notes and some excellent performances. and I'll let you say Planet of the, yes, it is another prolapse planet, isn't it?
It was going to be meta.
So do you remember in breakaway, there's a whole lot of other business going on?
Wallace is one of the American writers.
I'll talk to you about, if you care to what this story was actually going to be about, and it's completely different. it's got some good moments.
What is very clear is that this is the 2nd episode.
So just to kind of contextualise this, we are watching it in broadcast order as UK broadcast order.
But it's very, very clear from a few elements of the production and some of the dialogue and stuff that this is episode two.
Yeah.
And, you know, we're going to see in a minute the opening credits where Victor doesn't get to put his little thing in the thing.
You know, like he's not visible in the opening credits at all.
We don't get to see Barry.
And there are a few other things as well.
The music, I think, is, you know, like, anyway, we'll talk about it as we go through.
But this is space 1999, a sort of nascent form of space 1999.
Space in 1999.
We're not quite there, yeah.
So the way this works, I'm going to say a key word in a minute and the key word is porno funk.
My money was on Norwegian blue.
What about you?
It's just pining for the beyond.
Like, it's so porno funk.
Like that music.
Yeah, oh, no, no, no.
I want to talk about the alarms.
There's so many alarms in this episode.
We'll get there.
But the next time that I say that word, I want Richard and the viewer at home to press play.
Does it contain a hyphen?
No, no, it's a single one.
Yeah, are we doing it on the unk?
Or the... on the unk.
Or the no.
Yeah.
No, no, definitely on the Unk.
James, who is not helping.
You have met me.
Yes.
All right.
No premature Unking.
No, I'll time it perfectly.
You watch.
That was special guest, Don, whoever.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Very privileged.
Alright. to that in a bit.
Here goes.
Porno funk.
Oh, I did it on the own.
Oh, and there's your planet of the product.
It's very pretty.
It looks like a koala in profile.
You see the nerve?
It does.
Yes.
Oh my god.
It's the opening titles of Star Trek.
Lower decks.
Yes.
It's the Black Mountain.
So we were talking before just off mic about how it's, you know, like he's a manager in an office.
It's administrators in space.
It is administrative in space.
And one of the things that I love more about it. more than anything else.
You know, Kirk is in like the the king's throne in the middle, but he gets up off his desk, put some files down.
I'm surprised they don't have standing desks.
It's only 99.
Only David gets a static day.
Health and safety is not that good.
People are a stand.
Everyone else whose subordinate is sitting at a desk.
Don, have you noticed no one's got their own screen?
No one can check their Twitter.
What did we have now?
No, because it's all printouts.
Everything is a docket printout from a restaurant that chef gets.
They do have to check everything with computer.
Yes.
So, yeah, Terra Nova was kind of meta.
So, John, do you remember the whole premise of this, that there was an alien planet that came into the solar system and we thought it was the planet that the UFOs came from from this Anderson series.
Yes, because it was going to be that, but then they remade it as this.
Yeah, and we're in the champions. the UFO.
Yes, I recognised him immediately.
The guy on far screen?
That's a Tracy boy, isn't it?
I recognise that voice.
Uh, I'm the guy dying now.
No, that's not Shane Rimmer. but Shane Rimmer does do a voice.
Shane Rimmer does do a voice in many episodes and I'll just check for you if he does it in this one.
Yes, he does.
The voice of Banion is Shane Remis.
Oh, well, that could be that. probably him.
How many traces do they kill in the show?
Because there were so many in the 1st round.
You were right.
That was a dog.
No, he's he's he's quite well.
He'll be fine.
Oh, there's a scene cut.
Poor old Stuart Damon, who was, you know, going to be a star.
Yeah, yeah.
From New York to do the champions that premiered exactly the same day as the forget me not episode.
The Eagle.
Should we mention Don?
I saw you lean forward.
That gorgeous 44 inchico.
The Decal, it says Moon, Moonbase alpha on the thing?
Is that only here in this episode?
No, it's on all of them.
Is it on all of them?
I've never known.
It's a big 44 inch cough.
Okay.
And here's the lazy Susan.
Barbara to her.
Are we sure she's not a replicant because they have the same introduction to the rapper?
Excitingly for all of us at home, most of the takeouts that you're seeing here are cut as in not used in this area.
They filmed so much for this.
Yeah, actually, you're right.
There are definitely things that...
You haven't seen any.
No, Barry Morse, no Barry Morse in the opening credits?
Because New York Cutters, because they said they didn't want to see him, they didn't think he was attractive enough.
Well, that's not what the people who came to his party.
That's right.
Sylvia disagreed and thankfully so did Jerry.
So, yeah.
Oh, I haven't seen that font in decades.
It's Futura.
We love it.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Future is such a weird font.
You've got that and then you've got the one which is where Futura Black.
Yeah, yeah.
But it's beautifully geometrical and beautifully modernist.
That's why it's called Futura.
It is.
Now this episode was going to be called Siren Planet.
And we all got a bit excited because we thought, oh, Joan Collins is back from Batman.
Or, you know, all those weird aliens from Red Dwarf with...
I love that, yeah.
Oh my god.
The computers here really have a proper kind of lecroset thing going.
It's really quite amazing.
I'm an old man We all are, darling.
I like to think of Koenig as a space metre straighter.
Yeah, yeah.
Administrators.
Administrator.
So this is going backwards for its 1st appearance in the show.
But so the music, I think the music in this episode is like lots of cues.
So Space 1999 tends to use a bunch of cues over and over again.
Isn't it?
There's a library of cues.
Barry, Barry, um, wrote quite a, you know, the acoustral orchestral scores, but Vic Helms was hired to cut them together, but he didn't have the orchestral technique that they expected.
So, um, other people did did work on it.
The school works really well for this.
Here, though, there's a lot of use of the actual main theme of Space 1999, which is something they don't end up running with.
And you can imagine that being the sort of thing that you would do in the 1st regular episode.
Because I think this story goes to a great deal, you know, goes to great lengths to introduce Paul and Sandra and David, you know, like our secondary characters.
There are a couple of times where we get introduced to them.
The porno Funk crew.
They're doing it with a lot of Thunderbirds.
Oh my god, it's my horrible husband.
I hoped he was dead.
One of my dead husbands.
This is what I prepared earlier.
Does anyone recognise Bulldog Drummond here?
No, not under that fucking foundation.
I get other species.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, he was a hottie.
He's actually a bit of a win. for this episode.
He was a bit of a casting miracle.
And he's, of course, the best, I feel, and the 1st of the number 2s on the prisoner.
Oh, he's so cold and suave, but he suffered from short conoreitis, which means everybody loved a whiskey and a fag.
Okay.
So, you know, they're all incredibly beautifully twilated men in 1965. and now look at them.
It's the it's the 70s.
There are a lot of plastic bottles of coloured liquid all over the place here.
It's alcohol.
Okay, brother, definitely.
There was no Louvre for the crew.
Ah, yes, no, leave for the groom.
Some of them have been eating a lot of beetroot.
Maybe that's it.
I know my asparagus.
It's getting a bit sexy tense, isn't it?
see the very pivotal shelf that we see several times during this episode.
I'm just waiting for it to be in the background.
The proper IKEA show.
There's the shelf that just standalone shelf that is a featured extra in several scenes.
It does more acting than Barbara in something.
So Barbara is absolutely called upon to do as much acting as possible here.
And speaking as the website administrator who has to choose one of the scenes to illustrate this episode on the website.
It was very difficult for you.
I had I was spoiled for choice.
There is a lot of Barbara being startled and we're about to see some impressive moments of it.
I put my hand up.
There's a callout moment when her Lego hair moves.
I didn't think that was allowed.
No, it was very hot in studio.
It was melting.
It was actually stinky hot under the lights.
Thank you for pointing that out.
They're all meant to feel a bit cool, but they were literally pigs on fits. sweaty.
Yeah, it was really, it was a very hot set.
And I think Rudy Guerin, Ganreich, probably favoured nylon, like the... the natural fabric. blend jersey to get a stretch.
Okay.
And they were thin, but they were very warm, yes.
That is the 2nd biggest zipper I've had.
They are so great.
The biggest one was on the back of a Naimon, right?
No, no, the 1960s Playboy jumpsuits.
They had huge, they had huge, the 1960s.
I want one.
The flair jumpsuits with their male female symbols.
The 70s, eh?
We don't know what we're missing.
In the 1st episode, we told you what the zippers were.
We actually told you where they came from and you could, you must go back and listen to.
It's gorgeous set.
They're muting the colours.
They're not going for the funky colours yet.
I'm waiting for the um, for the 10 C couple bits when John starts to register jealousy, but I've not seen it yet.
She does rush back into his arms the moment.
Yeah, a widow.
Oh, no, no.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like the moment that he's dead again or that he's off in space being a weird space being, you know, with Wesley on the traveller and whatever.
The whole, the whole, um...
We almost made it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They missed an opportunity to give him a defect and then she could reimagine him without the defect.
That would have been brilliant.
Oh yes.
Yeah.
It's very woo woo.
More chiselled jaw.
So much woo-woo.
There's a lot of woo woo in this.
Well, I thought this was Solaris, you know, the Star, Lem, 1972, 73.
The beautiful film and beautiful novel that I love.
But it isn't.
It's Ray Bradbury and they and they acknowledge this in the script notes between Art Wallace's script was pretty much completely rewritten. as in Siren Planet, but it's based pretty much directly from the...
Did anyone read Martian Chronicles when we were boys?
Oh so long ago.
Yeah, it's a long time ago.
It was 1950.
But the story is April 2000, the 3rd expedition, and it's just a really short story in that.
Um, and it's about, it's about a planet, you know, um, Oh, in this, this was originally, they were calling it Homeland 2, not Terra Nova.
I'm glad they went for Terran Nova.
Latin, after all.
An alien intelligence with the power to create reality from human memories, conjures images of the alphans, deceased relatives in order to, you know, lure them to their deaths.
See, also bringers of wonder.
Yeah, I've seen also every 2nd episode of Graham Williams' time of Doctor.
Speaking of Ray Bradbury.
Have you seen the YouTube video clip which Rachel Bloom...
Bloom, who created Crazy ex-girlfriend. did this great YouTube video like years before she did Crazy Ex-Girlfriend called Fuck Me, Ray Bradbury.
She waxes lyrical in song about the writings of Ray Bradbury and how much she loves him.
I think we need to do it as a sci-fi writer.
Which of these people do you feel is more alive?
And also, do you think he did dialect impressions their entire life?
He really is doing dialect impressions, isn't he?
He's the Nick Briggs of Space 99.
I think this is their entire in the entire marriage went along.
So...
This is very early and it does do things at Space 1999 will go on to do a lot better.
Well, eyebrows, obviously.
Um, but droofy bras.
Like, I think the planet looks amazing.
And I think the thing for me that series one of Space 1999 does really well is that it creates a sparse and it like implacably hostile universe.
Like everything is out to kill them.
The universe is weird as fuck.
Yeah, the universe is weird and horrible.
And we've not even got to Victor's quarters.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Look at that, look at this is a bit tender here from Martin Lander touching Victor's shoulder.
Or is that just the Where's HR?
Is that he's brought his own Aurac?
I'm getting a bit warmed up.
How can one man have so much stuff on a moon?
How many trips did that all take?
But this is actually Kerning's office redressed, if you're wondering.
Oh okay.
The set looks familiar.
He does have a lot of sort of electron microscopes and stuff, I guess.
Got some funky shit, yeah.
I'm fixated on the zipper.
I never know why.
It looks like an action figure.
Yes, they put a zipper on an action figure, which is oversized.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So you look at these people.
They look like moving action. scale that were on the marinettes.
Oh, it's a bit sad, which is kind of appropriate for a show made by someone who is known for making things with marionettes.
Is that why the ceilings are all so high because they're all meant to be on strings?
Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So someone can lean down through the control room is just ludicrously high.
Like little known fact, that is actually how they animated Martin Landau.
So we're going to see some incredible shots at the very end, I think, of main mission, which I just think is incredibly beautiful.
And given that I think I've probably seen it at the beginning of a series 2 episodes since the last time we recorded and I was absolutely horrified.
Like, bereft.
Oh, fuck.
They're in a fucking boot cupboard.
Do you know the shitty part?
This is Studio M, which was the biggest at Pinewood until they built the 007 sound stage for Spy Who Love Me, which is still a good 4 years later.
So this one, and yeah, they were shooting Man with the Golden Gun across the road, if you're wondering where we're up to.
Yeah, yeah.
So it's still pretty early.
So this is early 1974.
So, I was going to say.
But the main mission set, and these other ones, Don, uses the entire loftiness of state.
But they use the same bloody sound stage for season two.
It was that Fred Freddie Freeburger said.
It's too big, it's too hard to set up.
It too expensive.
Just take it down.
The viewers are getting lost.
Didn't they shift to America?
Didn't they shift off?
production?
It's still shot here.
It's still shot in Pinewood, but you have you have Freddie Freiberger, who was previously known for joining Star Trek after Roddenbury leaves and fucking up series 3 of Star Trek.
So he's responsible for things like the empath and Plato's stepchildren.
We've got a whole season.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, we do. not all bad.
But anyway, right now it's vanilla beige heaven.
Oh my god.
And she's tense.
Well, how would you feel if your husband came back from the dead, Nathan?
Disappointed?
Oh, I just cleaned out all your stuff.
When we going to call this the beige cast?
No, we weren't, but the colour on the website is called Barbara Beige canonically.
It actually is.
So my, you know, the house, we painted all of the walls white.
We had white cupboards in the kitchen.
It was absolutely beautiful. actually make that noise.
They do.
I wanted to live in Moonbase Alpha.
And every tchotchki, every painting, every picture that Calvin brought into the house.
Just broke my heart just slightly more.
But he doesn't give you a little nasty static electric shock whenever...
No, he does.
That's one of the upsides.
Also, yeah, well, I faint demurely too onto brown vinyl.
Beautiful, uh, fibre.
No, they're yeah, they're fibreglass.
A fibreglass movie.
Had that marble when I was a child.
Did you know?
Look at that sound.
I mean, that set is so beautiful.
AirPods lamps.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They're wonderful, aren't they?
I just want to shove them in my ears.
The cuisine, this, the steel powder coated and yeah, again, we've name checked them.
But their AirPods 4 with ANC, they're on the AirPods Pro. No, no, they're the old, the original AirPods, the whole War of the Worlds AirPods.
Oh, no, no, no.
The newer ones, which are slightly pointy.
Not with the little cushions, yes.
I think that David is more chill and maybe playing it younger than he ends up landing with.
Do you think?
hand driers.
Yeah, that's it.
Meanwhile, I've got some filing to do.
I had them at Melbourne Airport when I was there.
Oh, look, he gets a screen.
Pre-Star Wars, before we had space captains and fighter jocks, we had space administration.
Yeah, awesome, isn't it?
administrators.
Yeah.
I'm sorry at all.
Offer face again.
Are those silk pyjamas?
Yeah, they're gorgeous, aren't they?
Or Saturn?
I think they're satin.
Yeah, sorry, satin and satin bedsheets.
Yeah, satin pillows and probably a satin conig as well.
We will see them again.
That is the standard.
Are they Rudy's?
they Rudy's work?
Rudy hardly did anything.
Only designed these and we flashed the pictures and they're nothing like them.
Keith Wilson designed everything you're looking at except the spaceships.
Wow, okay.
So what you're looking at here, Keith Wilson designed, the Kimonor, because it could lustily reveal cleavages.
Yeah, and and both his hairy chest as well.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Alan...
Oh, nice.
We all do.
Martin's doing a great deal of eyebrow acting here, and I think he needs to be applauded for it.
You sure he's your husband?
See, a little bit of jelly beans.
Yeah I think we are.
The green background?
Yeah, we've got the Midori alert background.
Yes.
Just in case you missed it.
Nicely, nicely seen.
But also, nobody leans that close into each other in real life.
HR's really busy in this episode.
Look at her smiling into his face.
There was no HR in the 60s.
Not even in the 90s?
No, they weren't really.
Oh, yeah, yeah, 1999.
No, probably not.
On his Aurac.
Okay.
So you, you, this is fucking Victor with his packet of neo magics.
Yes, like Troy of the thing.
Like look at these scans.
Tinsio lamp.
He got the nice stick.
It's sort of, oh, it's so beautiful.
They are beautiful, but he is he's literally done them with text, hasn't he?
Yeah.
No, adult colouring book stuff.
I don't know what's happening because the dialogue doesn't seem to be aware that most of him is green and blue.
And I don't know what that represent.
He has 2 hearts and he has 2 hearts.
You know what it reminds me of?
It's those, um... like the...
Crillionoras?
No, like when you used to get the, the, the crystal, like, you know, the, the, the stained glass.
Oh, my God.
Oh, that's a 70s slash.
Oh, the oven, yeah.
And you put them in the oven and they just didn't work.
Yeah. plastic just made a mess.
And if you put them too high, they...
I cannot tell you how many peace signs, I mean, during the late 60s, no, early 70s.
That's 70s.
That's when I was a child.
I would like to say that P science, it started with P.
Really?
Yes.
Now, I don't trust those sideburns.
I think he's non-human.
No, he's just Dr. Swinger.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Those are alien sideburns.
In any trek show, they're love handles.
Side facial hair like that would have a bumpy forehead.
See, also, series 2 of Space 1999. and Catherine Shell.
Let's get Catherine Shelley, the pater is brown because we're fucking idiot.
Riker.
And give her herpes of the idea.
I'd be an alien or having sex with Deanna Troy.
Yeah.
Or anything else. anything else that didn't move quick enough.
Just hanging out with Victor.
I went to IMDb to look up who else was even this.
And can I just say, everyone at home, go to IMDb and search for Barry Moores because the picture of him is fantastic.
He's playing something absolutely victorian.
It's a black and white picture.
He's got the sideburns, he's got the moustache.
He looks fabulously evil and a bit saturnine.
He's awesome.
Like, I've never seen him in anything other than this.
Oh, really?
But I'm sure that his marvellous.
I got to respect growing that sideburn because I love it.
We all were doing it in the 70s except, you know, us because we were children, but...
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Whatever you say, it's that sexy voice.
They're attracted to him.
Whenever you say Barry Moore, they just think...
What's on her dressing gown?
There's a monogram on her.
Who knows?
There's a whole lot of other Moonbase-y type stuff that they've written in, but we don't know.
I don't remember her wearing that before.
Look at her stroking her hair, which is just one piece.
You're right.
It's one Lego piece that clips off.
It's like it's like that polystyrene hair from Priscilla Queen of the Desert.
Yes, yeah.
Yes, we don't see that ring again.
When 1st watching, I thought they were both body swapped at this moment.
Oh that would be fucking awesome.
That would be cool.
Just the juxtaposition and the mirror.
Yeah, we're striking out, we're striking our face going, 0 my god, we have a face.
I was putting too much complexity.
Forgetting that this was the 70.
No, late 60s?
70s, 70s, 70s.
And they didn't know how to make sci-fi yet.
Nothing happened.
They made the tropes.
No, the tropes were nascient.
Well, only a year before Tartovsky was shooting almost exactly the same way.
And I don't believe that Charlie Crichton had seen a cut of Solaris when he directed this because that that just that scene just then.
You know that the thing of Salaris when they're on the station, suddenly his wife had committed suicide.
He's in his room.
Yes, okay.
Yes.
Bob doing a push-up. very well.
Bob.
They were colouring in men's torsas.
They really are.
The privacy of their own.
I remember America briefly.
Every Christmas I would get, I would get a packet of neo magics.
Love the neo magics, my goodness.
Flashback.
And it's cuddle time with the magenta sleeps.
Now there's Tony Allen.
He's Australian, and he's in charge of security, and he doesn't talk much, but right there on the right.
I recognise the accent.
Yeah, Alan.
But it's 70s Australian accent.
Yeah, so it's real hot.
Proper mate.
It's truth.
Yes, V.
Try to help us.
Actually, Lee, how about you just tell us what you frickin want instead of telling us you're in danger?
I mean, seriously, all this could be there.
All of this could have been avoided.
Yeah, I mean, danger is all I was told, my lord.
It's kind of, it's kind of weird, isn't it?
Because, you know, space 1999 also does the thing, is this human, do you know what I mean?
Like, you know, is Julian Glove a human?
No.
Is Peter Bowles human?
Not really.
You know, like, it is all that sort of thing about human identity and stuff.
And, and, you know, it's like, we've gone to, gone to Campari alert now.
Yeah, we've gone past Aparol Spritzer.
No, we had Midori alert early, remember?
Or tequila sunrise?
The bottom of the cup?
So this is going to kill him.
He is allergic to red line, which you should have perhaps mentioned or, well, you think they'd have.
Or satin.
Yeah.
At this point, he's surrounded by sat or just allergic to wool.
He's allergic to mutton, now, tell.
His name was Telford in the original script.
I'm really quite glad they thought about that.
It's called Telford.
Well, because Helena is at her best when she's calling out the monosyllabic names of people.
John Bob.
That's an entire 3rd of her career.
Paul.
Is she ever 2 people?
Yeah, I think she does Paul.
Yeah.
I've got her agent's address.
I was going to write.
I'll ask her if she wanted to do a chat, but we better be polite.
We have been startling her for quite a while now, sweetheart.
She's a great sport.
I've been listening to her commentaries on the when she does.
She still talks and so, but, you know, 10 years ago she was doing conferences and stuff.
And she's a lot of fun.
Yeah, I can imagine.
This is the episode where she she said, you know how Sylvia said that, you know, she did have a lot of demands.
And one of them was that she said she went into a dressing room and they built this entire room next to my dressing room and there were carpenters with 6 chippies.
You call them chippies.
That sounds delicious.
There are Jimmy.
I said, boys, what are you doing?
She said, we're building you a bar, Miss Bain.
She said, what wheeling, you're a balmy spain.
She said, what do you mean?
What do you mean, a bar?
Anyway.
Well, that's what you ask for.
You wanted a bar.
No, ballet for stretches.
And she said, they built me an entire bar with lounges and booze and the whole thing and that just became Victor's office.
At least that's the story she's telling me.
Yeah.
But there's something really thin about this, isn't there?
Oh, the whole premise is very much here.
Well, it's a, look, Solaris managed to do it for 17 hours in the original card.
Yeah.
I mean, this is stately and it is stately because of Solaris and because of 2001.
Like things happen very slowly.
But this is not originally.
Like, this is just before the, this is just at the point where Telford, as in Lee Russell. sabotages the oxygen plant, which would have been jolly exciting. and kidnaps Helena, takes her down to the planet.
A lot more exciting.
I thought he was going to climb like an aerial or something. holding her.
No, but instead he just kills himself, doesn't he?
Well, no.
Well, and now he does, but what did happen, Kernig followed them down in another eagle, and then he's confronted by, um, where Kernig is confronted by his own long dead father.
It got very complicated.
I know, it's a bit messy.
Um, and then.
Very 2001.
Well, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Actually, or any of the worst films of Star Trek.
And he says, who's your father?
And who's your daddy?
And Konig's father reveals to Konig that the aliens have a plan to assassinate Alpha's command staff, Yawn.
Do you mean Sandra?
Sandra. simply to tell them to bog off and don't settle here on homeland too.
Kernig then used, you know, a portable scanner to dismiss the alien projections before rescuing Helena and returning to Alpha.
What a shame we didn't get to see that one.
Yeah, I mean, I like That's Nightmare of Eden.
But I do like the version that we get.
Like, I like the planet.
I love that.
Yeah, but they have no way of resolving it.
And this is another thing that we had before or later, you know, with war games where, you know, the aliens just say, this is what will happen unless you do the thing.
And they can't work out a decent way out of it.
But I don't know.
There's a, there's a, that weird strangeness to the whole thing that I like what's happening here.
They're not going to kiss.
No, thinking about it.
I'm not going to kiss.
What alert are we on?
Oh, it's oh, it's lavender.
If they're going to kiss, it's lavender.
I thought it was some tequila sunrise alert.
Oh, that is tequila.
I think it's always that sort of advocates that VOC alert.
Vocalert.
The eggy one.
Oh, yuck.
She knows.
Does she know though?
This is stupid, this scene.
See, it's like, yes, my husband died.
And then he came back, but I'm kind of okay because otherwise I'd look like a weird Stepford wife for the rest of the episode.
Oh, you don't say.
I'm already recording episode 2 and I really do keep it together.
When did Stephen King write pet cemetery?
Because is it a pet cemetery episode?
It is.
Oh, in one sense.
I don't really, I don't know pet cemetery, is that bad?
You bury it and it comes back and it Oh, okay.
Oh, yeah, okay.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
How did she get a Funk and Wagonal's up there?
So to speak.
I love that, though.
Oh, she's beautiful.
They just mailed it to them. volume by volume.
You get one a month.
If I remember my advertising correctly from the 70s.
So it's Encyclopedia Moonbase.
I guess so.
Lunica.
Yeah.
It looks for you.
Well, from Alpha?
Well, no one can say that it's Wolfram Alfra.
Yeah, well, from Alfra.
Yeah, everyone would say it.
Oh, that's deep nerd cut. set.
So Johnny Byrne through all the Buddhist allegories in of benign, sentient otherness.
But then it goes totes pertwi as we're about to find out.
Oh, I mean, the that thing at the end where Dead Lee says to her, visualise what it is that you want to see. been watching Oprah.
That's right.
It's the secret.
No, there's quite too much actualisation.
Yes, yeah.
You know, that's actually Neville Goddard.
That goes back to the 50s.
So there was a writer, not SF, but he's the guy who came up with this premise.
That everyone's just making shitloads of money on YouTube out on.
But he said, what you visualise, and it's very Buddhist. imagine is how you and there is a certain truth to, I love that I'm sitting around with people who just want to set fire to what I'm about to say.
There's a certain truth to your disposition does dictate your day.
So if you're in a cranked, fricking mood.
You're gonna get that guy on the bus.
And if you're not, you're probably not going to notice it.
That's so fucking horrible because people are trash.
And well, what we visualise as a society, it's a substifier. horrible.
Individuals are fine, but you know, if you let us all visualise, you get Cthulhu.
Maybe that's why we are where we are now.
Yeah, rather than instead of being on Terran Nova.
That's non-compulsory voting.
And that's where we lose half our listeners.
No, no, they have made us.
Does anyone have brown eyes?
No, that's a Sylvia thing.
We've mentioned that before.
She's limpidly aware.
So David has brown eyes and so does.
But if you're a white member of the cast, it's green or blue.
And even Nick's got green eyes.
They're not hazel, they're green.
Leah's...
Stephen Thorne, then.
No, why?
Oh, my God.
Brown eyes.
Oh, okay.
Oh, he's an antimatter person.
Yes, yes, yes.
Yeah, exactly.
The whole anti-matter thing.
It's quite exciting how I don't want to blow this powder.
This is after the 3 doctors.
It's a remake of the 3 doctors.
It's not really because it was written and shot in January 73.
So everything's before everything.
They haven't seen any of it yet.
The space we're in, it's giving me Black 7 vibes.
Just because the amount of space and desks.
I love it. so much. in space.
I mean, only the English could give us this.
When are we doing the desks?
The American space podcast. tiny desks.
You look at the desks on the Enterprise.
Really tiny.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
In comparison to the square footage of, of, you know, Space 1999.
And because he's the commander, he gets the biggest fuck off desk, you know, like on the entire base.
Yeah, yeah.
Just a big ass desk.
I'm surprised he doesn't have one in the Newton's balls.
There's no trading things going on.
Wouldn't that be awesome?
He does.
Oh, does he?
In some episodes, yes.
Yeah, yeah.
Awesome.
Like, I'm just, you know what I would do now.
Desks in space.
It's fun watching who's gonna die, isn't it?
So at this point, he's determined to be stupid, isn't he?
Like, like, Kerning is free.
Oh my God, he annoys me so much.
But he's been told by Victor, who is obviously the smartest person on the entire planetoid.
And he says, actually, there's antimatter, and you'll all get killed.
And John goes, yeah, no, I'm still going.
And then he says, all right, good luck, John.
And then that's it.
We just don't even think about it.
Well, he asked me so much.
He doesn't care.
Oh, yeah.
That's right.
No one is paying to move all his shit off the moon base.
That annoyed me so much because like, like, he literally, like, I think I messaged your, when I was watching it the other day, I was like, how the fuck?
Yeah, why is people...
Like, literally, this guy, every bloody week is like, no, I'm not going to listen to your expert advice.
I'm just gonna go down to this planet that you've told me is gonna kill me.
That's because they cherry picked a manager.
And like management, upper management picked him to go to Moonbase Alpha to fix the situation.
He's David Brent.
Yes.
Yes, he's David Brenton's face.
Did you see that they were in a room that was labelled autopsy room?
Yes.
They have an autopsy room. autopsy room.
Is it next to the... not next to the Solarian?
That's right.
It's Super Mitchell.
Absolutely.
There will be deaths.
We don't have an autopsy room at work.
Do you?
Like, what's happening?
Is there any ever crew count because they kill so many...
And it's mostly security and pilots.
They do mention the number of people on the base occasionally.
And it's just like, is it four?
How many left now?
Is it like the enterprise?
It's like 450?
I don't know how many people are. 1000 families and next gen.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
No, a 1000 people, including those horrible children, Marla's daughter.
And there's preschool classes who are being evacuated during the song.
That terrible episode in season one of TNG with the kids on the planet, the radiation, where the power breaks. disappointments at this point, just for the fern boys.
I'm just always disappointed that they're always flying with the same pod when there's all these other pods there.
That's disappointing.
Also, quite excited.
This is the very 1st alien planet we see production wise and the very 1st one that the Andersons ever did for live action.
Wow.
And indeed in colour, they did models of the moon a lot, but not since the black and white funky shows, did they do?
Look at how beautiful that eagle is.
And how many greenskeepers did they employ?
Yes, this is great, because you don't get greenskeepers on most sci-fi shows.
Groundskeepers.
It's the it's the red sky, which happens over and over again, like Guardian of Pury, out that red sky. and the polyestarian balls.
Yeah, and the polystonian balls.
But look at that.
It is beautiful, though.
That pot is nice.
I don't think...
No, I constantly look at it and my eagle models and think, does the, yeah, no, it does.
Actually, design wise, it does work. beautiful.
One of the things I love about this show.
What about this?
Don't eat any vegetation without carrying out the appropriate test.
Are you fucking giraffes?
Like, you have, are you visiting a planet?
Can you just not eat?
Don't mate with the foreigner.
One of the things I love about the design of this show is that it has ceilings.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, of course.
Like, like, it's, it's, it's, like, you were saying earlier, the ceilings are so high, but it means it actually makes it look real because you can shoot upwards.
And so it looks like an actual room, not just a set of 4 walls.
It's beautiful, isn't it?
Well, it sounds I love it so much.
I just feel like we're in a giant terrarium.
Yeah, I know, of course.
Planet hell.
Yeah, it's absolutely unconvinced.
Are you ready?
Are you ready for our 1st vision, our 1st sight of an entirely alien life or there you go.
Sparrot.
Birds of Paradise. and there's the Norwegian blue, very much alive.
Yeah, beautiful, very much alive.
Yeah.
Do you want to, do you want a cute story?
Go fuck yourself.
Yes.
The 2nd blue one was hired from the set.
This was a cunt.
It kept saying cut.
Not no.
It's interpreted as cut, but it's not, they're not too sure.
So because Charlie Crichton, with a strong Scottish accent, would be, you know, telling everyone to shut up, sorry, James, you okay?
Nathan made me choke on my shoulder.
But it's interpreted by the nice people on the set that it kept calling out cut, but that's not the word.
What's this?
Like are you drinking that?
That's touching it without taking that?
Yeah, she's touching me that goes.
She's got a special thing.
What does this do?
It took me a 2nd to work out that they're transmitting the shit.
Just ABC.
Press buttons, ABC, and it transmits it up to...
I know, no, it has that keep cup.
It's an AMFM radio.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Once the 70s, you put AMFM radio into everything.
And then you get Countdown.
That's awesome.
And then she goes, oh, delicious.
Let's drink that mud.
That puddle of mine.
It's the frackers.
It has 0 impurities, but it's brown.
Yeah, it was just on fire.
Oh, no.
So, like, it's about the refraction of property of the sky.
No, no, it's organic.
All the brown stuff is organic, so it's not impurities.
River fruit.
Yeah, she's looking into the camera.
We're eating, we're eating.
You'll get Matthew Waterhouse, if you eat that.
You get crabs.
No, no, no.
That's how you get space ants.
Do you remember the way to Eden in Star Trek?
The one with the hippies where they all go down to the planet and they eat the fruit, but it's made of acid and their heads all dissolve or whatever?
It's not quite as bad as that.
Have you done that on?
On acid when I watched that one?
kind of vague.
Best way of doing it.
Speaking of acid and melting people.
I recently watched conspiracy.
Oh my god.
That's awesome.
Great.
Is it good?
Well, it was a long time ago.
Yeah, it was a long ago.
It was 1987.
Oh, God.
Now, are those pussy willows?
They are pussy willows.
That's exactly right.
I went to them between Titwillows.
They just got the production office. you know what I mean?
Like, yeah, everyone in the 70s. on the flowers, on the receptionist's death.
Yeah, exactly.
In a roughly hewn... big vase.
I mean, I quite like this, though.
Like, and the threat is we don't get to see it or anything.
We just hear about it, but it just turns out the ship is dissolving for like no reason and we don't get to see it.
It's because Omega is pissing on it.
I love the sky too. where it came from.
It just came to me.
But look at the sky.
It's wonderful, isn't it?
Like it's painted?
What is it, Richard?
It's a cycloramed. cyclorama.
It's the same one they use in Guardian of Piri.
They just redress.
They painted it.
But it's just a lovely painted bitter thing.
But there are, it's how they lighted.
Intestament of Arcadia is the, like, this reminds me of the planet.
Yeah, yeah, from that.
They do reuse.
They do reuse the same.
It's a massive set, by the way.
A lot of the shots are tight to get the close-ups because Charlie likes the...
Oh here we go.
Nick, take it off quickly.
No bloody Marlborough is in the Eagle.
That's right I told you to use the ashtray.
Still, it's the 70s, so, you know.
Oh my god.
No, it's like...
Did anyone else bong?
He had a bong in the cock.
That's it.
That's why all of the hose is on Moonbase Alpha a finger.
Oh, just...
I made that gun in Lego as a kid.
It got him in the nuts.
Oh, no, Paul's dead.
What will we do?
He died of laser nuts.
And one of the best bits yet is Sandra shows that, yes, I can perform.
Thank you.
This is actually too awful. really horrible.
I've got to admit, though, as a child, I only got really upset when Eagles died.
I'm blind when Eagles cried.
But as you mentioned, Penny Casper Morse earlier, didn't you?
I'm thin, I'm gorgeous.
I'm blind.
Oh, no, wait.
He looks very much.
Yeah, this is one of these things where you look, and then the thing happens. yeah?
Yeah.
Very alpha.
I did read that we all coughed for a hell a long time after filming because all the actors were in the smoke plume from the explosion and the effects.
Okay, that makes sense.
And they were all like choking for ages after they yelled cut.
Yeah, and that was cast...
Charlie Crichton used a lot of...
Moon just exploded, by the way.
Lovely magnet.
Not as big an explosion as you'd expect, but it's against lovely scarlet chiffon silks.
That shot of the moon against this lovely scarlet chef on silks was stunning, like amazingly great.
And then you cut, and then you have an explosion, which doesn't look like it, like was any...
That is...
That is fucking terrifying as hell.
That reminds me of the nothing and never-ending story.
It's so good.
So this is why Zenia Merton would was forever cursing the shoots because it really was blown up there freaking everything.
She said, you think there's a lot there?
There's a lot more than we're and we're copying all of it.
That thing falls on them.
There's a lot of enthusiastic set crew.
Yeah, just throwing trees at them.
The actors.
Cutting them with eyes, pretty boy.
Throwing glass bottles at their faces.
So what happens, Sandra just blows off into the distance.
She's gone.
No, she does, doesn't she?
Yeah, we never see her again.
Why did she run upwind looking for the person who got blown down?
Yeah, they're stupid.
They're blind.
It's wonderful, isn't it?
And it is the thing too, which is a constant theme of this, which is Eden, and then it becomes hell.
You know, it's all very...
Don, isn't it?
all very Faustian. all terrible.
Yeah.
Prior to today, I watched the 1st 2 episodes that were screened the way they were screened.
And it took me back to being a child watching this and suddenly realising, oh, yeah, everyone thinks the world's going to end with nuclear waste, circular war, or like proto-environmental climate change. or nuclear waste exploding on the top of the moon and setting it out of an orbit.
Yeah, yes.
Which was actually being discussed.
I just remember watching adults freak out about this.
Just the existential dread.
Which, as a child, because I saw a lot of Woody Avalon filmed, I didn't realise that existential meant bad.
I just thought it meant Woody Allen.
Alan uses it in a way that's, I'm a whiny whiner who convinced everything is going to end me.
And as a kid, oh, they just mean something exaggerated.
That's what existential means.
Like, I mean, bad, yes, because it's Woody Allen.
Not bad in the way that you think.
No, no.
So I didn't understand existential until I was in my 20s because I just thought it meant exaggerated.
An exaggerated threat.
And then I wiped some full of earth in my face and a dog had availed itself of his propaganda.
Jigsaw puzzle piece on his face there. falling asleep on the table.
We almost made it.
Rosebud.
That's their secret word.
That's their safe word.
Oh, I have to use that.
What's your safe word?
It's obvious, really, isn't it?
No, no, no, that's not a direction.
Oh gosh.
Well, he's dead.
I'm just going to take my pert ass over here. sit on this like.
Not really a pert arse.
No, she's just...
He's still doing dead acting is pretty great.
But this is very much like, how do we end this then, do you reckon?
Her hands are just reminding me of hands during Thunderbirds.
Yeah, yeah, the beautiful manicured hands that come in off of the side.
She's terribly poised, isn't she?
And also, I love that he's back in his action man's suit.
Yeah, yeah.
Yes, go, go, go.
Lee, everything's fucked.
I did tell you, bitch.
Oh, also, that is a Keith Wilson design, if you want to be totally nerdgazamy.
See the insignia on his...
The bisexual pride flat?
It is indeed.
No, it's a lovey plot.
It is.
It's actually...
But there's a variant that the alphans wear, which has more colours because it's a later point of the space program.
And that's how damn good Keith Wilson was.
Isn't it great?
So, you know, that's the Jupiter mission, which goes...
It had the transcolors on it as well.
Yeah, style, yeah.
Oh, Irish pride.
I mean, are, yeah.
Are you doing the accent?
I like this.
I love The fact that space turns you into a magical anti-matic eye who can disappear and reappear at will or whatever, like it's just the weirdness of it, and that's what we will end up going with.
Marriages in the 70s, pretty much as I remember.
Like Victor's Parties.
I think we should see other species.
What's that doing?
I want an open marriage.
And there's the line at the time of the episode.
But this would not have worked if you didn't have actors like this.
And honestly, whatever you think, as we keep saying it, Barbara Bain and Martin, really good.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You've got to have the Stanislevsky method to pull this off.
That's what they're doing.
And I love that Richard Johnson just underplays it because she's actually emoting. a lot of startle in this.
Yeah, no, no, no.
But there's a fair bit of kind of KY jelly.
They were married, especially okay.
Vaseline on the lens.
It took me an entire episode to get over Martin Landau not being Bella Lugosi.
Ah, yes, of course.
Hard once you've seen it, isn't it?
Really hard once you've seen that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Now, where are you hiding the formaldehyde?
Oh, that's what's in all those coloured bottles.
That's what's kind of a cut bottle.
Yeah, yeah.
Mostly Bob's booze.
Yeah, pee from people who've drunk.
P maldehyde. maldehyde.
Yeah.
I want that on my wall of my bedroom.
Oh, look.
Oh, look, she brought the parrots back to life.
Well, she brought the plants and the animals before she thought of her friends.
I just want a nice garden.
I just need some time to myself.
She was conscious of the cost of special effects.
She required rollback and mix to bring back.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So she invented rollback and mix first.
Then she brought the plans back and then she brought the plants and then her friends.
Do you realise, if this is episode two, they're all Mr.ons, they're all replicants.
For the rest of the time.
Yeah, these are not actual elephants.
I think you could just say, okay, it's a transporter metaphor thing, but and there's the Norwegian blue.
But they're, um, yeah, beautiful space plumage.
Why do they see you can't face Barbara?
Don't drink it, John.
Don't drink it.
Yeah.
It's made of anti-man.
I can't see her jaw.
Oh, Planet of Evil.
Did anyone else catch a little?
Did you get us a ripple?
Just get a little ripple.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I love that sky.
I keep expecting some sort of swinger's party in the background.
Victor's doing that upstairs on the moon.
Victor, John, anyone who's available, really.
Yeah, yeah.
Who is up there?
and the pilot. main pilot.
Yeah, yeah, Nick.
I love that shot of the moon through the glass.
Oh yeah, that's beautiful.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. stunning.
Yeah, we did see that before.
Now the episode's over and we're just going to explain...
Everyone's a little bit doldrum-y.
I'll just touch you.
No, it's Ecky Tuesday.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So there's a little bit touching down to the planet of the Ecky.
And it's just fucked.
There's Tanya there.
Tanya. they're back at work.
Yeah, they're back at work. back at the desk. an alien planet.
They've gotten high, they've died, they've come back, and now they're back at work.
Filing.
Space aside Tuesday.
So, see this?
This is setting up the premise of the show.
Isn't it for the rest of the thing?
So David comes and says, we'll see 10000000 planets and 36,000 planets that we can inhabit.
They will all be inhabited by spectral people or made of antimatter and everyone wants to kill us.
Even Catherine Shell. don't know.
Depends on the residual.
Not very much very...
Not to the point.
How much older?
But he's playing it super young.
He's playing it super young and green and enthusiastic.
Wesley, which is not where he lands.
He's a bit older than that.
No, but you know, like in the enthusiasm kind of cluelessness.
Oh, he's the new hire.
Oh, because he's not in episode one because they got rid of the guy for episode one because they had a new hire because he has enthusiasm.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And look look where we are.
This whole bit of the set. no wonder Freddie Freiberg lost his shit.
It's kind of who goes up there?
Marionette performance.
Yeah, the puppeteers.
They had to get all the grips out of the room 1st because that's where they smoke.
Yeah, no, but I think that that's where Sandra smoked.
Don't you think Sandra went up there to smoke?
Absolutely.
She did.
I think she was offered tits before she got to the planet.
She wasn't blind.
Just blind drums.
She was like...
Yeah, that's not a planet, that's a tab.
It's a, it's a, um, what they called?
Gobstopper?
Oh, yeah, everlasting Godstopper.
A lollig...
We've obviously got a lolligol...
Lolli gobble bliss bomb.
Thank you.
Oh my god.
I've never been taken back to the 70s so much recording one of these episodes.
Yeah.
Yeah, goodness in this one.
It is really thin.
Oh, let's hear it from rain.
I don't actually mind.
It's proper SF.
What is that?
But you've got to know.
I think you've no, I don't think so.
Look, when I was a kid, okay, we usually do.
What's that?
So each episode, Dawn, we haven't done this to you.
Where were you when you 1st saw this one?
A child.
I saw this when it was 1st screened in the States.
Okay.
What year?
West Coast when, uh, probably within 6 months to a year of screening in the UK.
We got it first.
Yeah, so it's broadcast in Australia before the UK.
Yeah, we got it 75 before everybody.
Oh wow.
I think IMDb says 77 doesn't?
No.
Yeah, we got it about 6 months before the UK.
You got it not long after that.
So 70, late 75, 76.
So I'm 6 years old.
I have visceral memories of the show.
Yeah.
See, few apps.
I came in a little bit after Richard and I was watching it during the school holidays when it was no longer on prime time.
And I don't remember this one specifically, but I do certainly remember a sort of parade of pink's guide planets that were super terrifying and, you know, existentially threatening.
So probably I did.
And Catherine Shell's eyebrows.
And Catherine Shell's eyebrows.brows. very depressed as a child, not being able to build an eagle and Lego because they didn't have enough Lego to build the right scale to get it right.
I love the fact you've been in this country long enough that you call it Lego.
I don't remember not calling it Lego.
No, no, as a kid in the States, I was born in 69 and I left in 79 and we still called it Lego, at least where I was.
What happened to America?
Why did it become compatible?
I have no idea.
Terrible. messed up people.
Well, I think we're done.
And so I am going to plug some things.
Does that sound like a thing we could do?
A hole with Ozone?
I'm going to plug my hole with ozone, the refresh more spray.
But before I do that, Richard, do you want to plug the most recent episode of the three-handed game?
game because Brendan's not here.
So we did send out Emily. about to transmit a lovely Tara King pastiche of the prisoner, places where you shouldn't be called.
Wish you were here.
That's coming out in a week or two.
Oh, brilliant.
Yes.
So we have released our episode of 500 Year Diary on the Seeds of Death, and we are about in the next day or 2 to release an episode on the 2nd time that Kevin Lindsay dons, the Santara mask for the Santaraan experiment.
So this should come out on Saturday, and that will come out the day after.
And we are still tracking Shooty Gut was progressed through his 2nd season.
And so on Monday night, Australian time and Monday morning, UK time, we will be releasing an episode on the interstellar song contest.
Well timed.
Yeah.
We're recording this during the, what, the 1st semifinal?
Well, the airing of the 1st semifinal in Australia?
of Eurovision.
Because it was live last night.
Okay.
Yesterday morning.
Over the interwebs.
Yeah.
Into the internet.
Well, in that case, all that remains is for me to say, until next time, remember that you really shouldn't eat that block of uranium 234, no matter how delicious it looks.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Ta-ta.
Bye.
And good Vennings.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Brilliant.
Oh, no, that was so good.
We did it.